we're publicly I heard depression you
know we're not gonna get really oh yeah
and so the thing is is this good for you
or bad for you I'm looking forward to it
you know the last the last crash was
2008 and I made more money in 2008 in
the whole life welcome everyone in the
school greatness podcast we've got the
legend Robert Kiyosaki in the house
thank you so much for being here super
excited about this well thank you people
sound I'm a legend in my own mind and my
reply is you may as well be a legend in
your own mind because now legend to
anybody else is mine hey you gotta
believe in yourself if you want to
create great things in the world at
least you've got to believe it's almost
25 years now Rich Dad Poor Dad right are
you sick and tired of talking about Rich
Dad Poor Dad or is it still something
you enjoy talking about that's kind of
what we're talking about this is what
I'm supposed to have done anyway so I
got on my path yes what I was saying lot
of guys who something tragic happens in
their life but it was the best thing
ever happened like I had a friend who
was a Olympic snowboarder and he did all
those goofy things those guys do and he
shattered his body
oh and nobody could heal him so he
became an acupuncturist and the guy's
greatest he found this real gift it's
not snowboarding or whatever he was
doing is he's a healer mm-hmm and he
uses acupuncture you know and he heals
people but it hadn't crashed he wouldn't
be where he is today yeah what was the
big tragedy in your life what was the
big tragedies what was like the big aha
moments where something bad had to
happen for you to say oh let me wake up
and take down this path there's a lot of
a man I really was as an entrepreneur my
biggest failure was Alice
successful in my first venture mmm this
is I was 25 years old and I started a
nylon and Bronco Surfer Moloch business
everybody said well why why are you
doing that as well I don't know what
else to do bein all right I used to make
nylon well I went to school in New York
military school sailing school so I used
to sew these nylon wallets out of sails
so and we're looking for an idea for a
product and the product sucks doesn't
really count
I just needed to start a business so I
was working at Xerox at the time in
Holland little and I gave my I showed
this little wallet to my two partners
two criminals but anyway so we we came
up with these nylon was we had a
manufacturing in Korea nobody would buy
them so I have a hundred thousand
wallets New York I'm in Hawaii and my
friend and I are going door to door
trying to sell these do no way and
everybody kept saying you shit me what
are you guys doing it was because we
feel that the wallet business I was
sitting in our offices in Harlem or that
somebody says hey the jogging had just
started baby boomers would get first
getting into hell and they started
jogging yeah the Nike waffle and all
this other good shit and so this guy in
Golden Gate Park goes for a jog he
didn't do it his keys he put his key on
top of his car tire he went for a run
and guess what he came back as parks
come Wow
and so the headline says San Francisco
Times racist what does a jogger do with
their key you know oh my god so since I
kind of a quasi engineering background
yeah I design with a hook and tear
method and built the shoe pocket that
went on a runner's shoe so I had this
nylon wall that's not how to run her
chute I'm a shoe pocket so I go around
the world again so I'm going broke so
fast
nobody's get borrowing money raising
capital well it was all good because I
was learning how to raise capital yeah
so finally we're desperately
full those days it took four months for
an ad to come out so we have to shoot
this stupid shoot pocket on New Balance
320 shoe and we get it into Runner's
World magazine 16 thousand bucks a lot
of money and then we waited for the
phone to race with the way to like
January February March it on the phone
didn't ring so we want a quick we're out
of money can't pay the rent
really pull up my heart and it was it
was getting so bad
so my let's get one more shot just one
more shot so we we go to New York City
at the Sporting Goods short the collar
steel and I'm sitting at my booth in the
basement because that's all I could
afford
and this guy goes walking past he goes
my company must call rippers so I'm
putting my big sign up rippers yeah and
he goes rappers rappers where have you
been
and I terrorized it I'm here no no no no
he says where have you been no what do
you mean he says I saw your ad I said
good my store is filled with people
coming in looking for the shoe pocket
Wow I said call me what did you call me
he says you idiot you don't have your
address or phone number on the ad oh my
goodness Wow and then what happened is
playboy put a pic you know they featured
this young thing with nothing on but a
shoe pocket
and our salesman I look like a genius
but then I went broke we couldn't keep
up with demand the yacht's wallets took
off shoe pockets took off we were
borrowing and borrowing and borrowing
just to finance inventory we were
shipping all over the world and we went
broke because I kept raising money and
one day but we were already like 850,000
in debt which was a lot of money back
then
a lot of money right now yeah well it's
relative I go back to my partner Stanley
the accountant the CPA the CFO and I
said how much more do I have to raise he
says I think a hundred thousand will do
I said good so I go raise another
hundred thousand right so I hand the
check to stand it because he couldn't
you know conscious cuts yet so I give
him a hundred thousand dollars will this
take care of the problem as Stanley said
yes he took care of his problem he paid
off his he paid off his investors oh so
we're just we're still broke with money
Stanley hits the road and that's not
what went down
stealing Stanley I love that guy he did
me the biggest favor of all you know I
mean I learned so much Oh lesson you
learned from that big success / failure
well just because they're smart doesn't
mean they're not dishonest and I've run
into more crooks yeah I think I hired
them onto intention until you learn your
lesson right every entrepreneur I've
talked to I've had subway still mm-hmm
you know I go to my doctor and this
little cutie working for him this
beautiful young woman you know are
sweeter than everybody and so one day I
went say well where is she
it was yeah where is she well what she
did because she's text-heavy
speaker raped the invoice another
computer so you know 20 you know like
90% went to the doctor in ten percent
went to her Wow
and so she - I said that little
sweetheart he goes mark and then so he
he called the police and that this is
the interesting part
her father was are a rich guy mm-hmm and
he comes in is this I'll pay you
anything just don't senator jail Wow so
then that was the next thing you learn
is it better
senator jail or take take the money
Wow
she's in jail you can't teach that stuff
yeah you gotta experience it you got to
go here it's right in front of you all
the time man what was the what's the
lesson you've learned in the last two to
three years that you thought you had
already learned that you keep learning
that comes the hard way is there
anything that you still learn or have
you seen at all no it's as you know Rich
Dad Poor Dad a story of my rich dad who
had no education but he grew up in the
business for real took over the family
does it's at 13 so he kind of grew up in
the real world of money when my rich dad
was a PhD born almost desperate went to
stand for it and they're both Western
you're a smart guy and all this but as
you know teachers don't know shit
nothing about right well some of them
were forced when they're forced to teach
that right some of them try to educate
in other ways and inspire you know what
happens when I go in the most trouble is
when I criticize going to school hmm
because too many people history only
hope and salvation
yeah so if I say well I don't think
school teaches here much I'm able to
piss on the Pope I think so all right
now if you don't go to school and then I
tell you how Steve Jobs dropped out he
did pretty good yeah it's dropped out
down top Zuckerberg Zuckerberg dropped
out Henry Ford Walt Disney did it you
know they did hurt No so anyway religion
is made education is religion to most
people yeah so that's why I step on toes
all day what a Mark Twain quotes they're
like don't let schooling getting the way
of the education and the one of the
reasons why I started the school
greatness I was telling you before we
started recording is that I was in the
special needs classes literally every
day for as long as I can remember since
kindergarten until
seventh year in college I had a tutor I
was in the special needs classes with a
few kids who had learning disabilities
and it was the most challenging thing
for me because I wish they would have
taught me things that I'm learning now
and the reason I created the school of
greatness cuz I was like one of the
things I wish they would have taught me
in school to help me get ahead in my
finances to help me get ahead in my
health my mind said my you know how to
deal with a breakup in a relationship a
tragic time like the the emotional side
of things the the education that I wish
they would have taught us I was like I'm
gonna go create it I'm gonna find people
like Robert and teach us two ways so you
know you're doing that through your your
work and I'm trying to do that but I
think there's people trying to do good
by educating outside of the traditional
school system where they're I think
they're more limited and that's why I
created the cash flow board game it's
because I learned about I learned about
money playing one hop yeah I learned
more about life than I did four years of
college yeah I went to a really good
school you know the best schools in the
world u.s. much great Academy that came
out a rich man but it didn't teach me
much about I was the only a high-paid
employee yeah so then I joined the
Marine Corps then I have two professions
I can fly for United Airlines or I could
sail for Standard Oil
how do you want to either because wasn't
challenging anymore mm-hmm I think if
there's a lesson is that I'm looking for
the challenge and some people looking
for security
they're extremely different people yeah
and you talk about you know I you know
rich favors the bold those that are
willing to take risks and willing to put
themselves out there do you think you
can get rich without taking risk and
being bold and taking you know these big
chances or can you keep this this
security mindset and really gain true
wealth well many people have you look at
Cuomo and all those guys were born rich
kids my father right no Trump could have
taken that path - he was he was born a
rich kid so it's not it's pot I think
he's either an entrepreneur or not right
that's you know
interesting I never thought I was an
entrepreneur until I had a big wake-up
call a tragic experience and it was kind
of like a perfect storm I didn't know
how to make a dollar
I was not like selling baseball cards I
didn't do the lemonade stand I didn't
try to hustle all this stuff as a kid I
literally maybe made a little bit of
money in the summers just because my dad
put me to work
and I would had this dream of playing
professional football and then I made
250 bucks a week my dad got in a tragic
car accident he was in a coma for three
months I didn't have a college degree it
was 2008 the economy went down I was
living on my sister's couch she was
feeding me I was making no money I was
living off three credit cards with
student loans and I didn't have my dad
as that kind of financial safety net
anymore because he wasn't able to help
me and bail me out so it was more like
what do I do
no one was hiring people with degrees at
that time even master's degrees I didn't
even get a bachelor's degree yet and I
was just like how do I survive so was I
don't think if the worst thing in my
life would have happened I want to be
here learning how to be hungry how did I
say I need to go survive right now and
take chances but I think I think that
perfect storm and tau D made me into
this survivor creative mindset willing
to risk it all whereas if I had my
father to kind of protect me financially
or say because he was like you're gonna
take over the business you're gonna come
work for me and that was my mindset when
he kind of left emotionally and mentally
he's still alive today but not the same
from the brain trauma
it made me step up as a human being he's
a 24 year old and say I gotta learn some
stuff and that's but that's why I say to
young people today look at this pandemic
this corona virus pandemic you know it's
really tragic because it attacks the old
guys mmm
but this but even worse is the baby
boomers head at the easiest of all
generations but now that their pensions
are gone their 401ks are gone yep Social
Security's broke Medicare's broke so I
say to younger people
this pandemic that's crisis it's the
best thing that ever happened to you
you know you think about that iPhone you
have more power in that iPhone that I
had with my Sperry UNIVAC mainframe
computer and then so when I meet people
as all the economy's bad I said this the
only economy's between this here and
that here mmm
no there's a economy out here but this
is the best time for your generation
because your tech savvy
I'm not tech savvy no you got this was
made for you guys the old guys like me
are being cleaned out by the pandemic
bring you a cash way is clear guys
forgot they're dead you know so it's a
great time but exactly as you're talking
about
the bad times are they laying to the
best types that's it you can see it but
some unfortunately as you know there's a
lot of your generation are younger
they'll never recover yeah there's the
worst of time right now and they're
gonna they're gonna reflect back to this
in five years and 10 years and say
that's the thing that screwed me up or
hurt me and and be a victim to it as
opposed to saying okay this is happening
and how can I make the most of it and
what's it gonna take for me to learn a
new skill or get more creative or be
hungrier and this time are more
important with your teachers hmm who we
listening to well you know that's why I
keep saying to the Millennials you know
I meet Millennials who are just
horrifyingly weak snowflakes they go to
college and norm adds they thought
trigger events you know I don't know
what they say to that but they've got to
have special rooms where there's no
whatever I'm going home welcome to the
real world Millennials who are as tough
as nails I mean this is the biggest
opportunity they've ever had huge so it
just depends upon what's between this
here this year what's in your heart
yeah for the what do you think is the
the number the next step the first step
or the number one step for the average
person with you know the kind of a
normal job that they might be losing
they have some dead they got some credit
card what's the next step for them to
not only survive but thrive in this
market in this time oh I always say quit
your job but that's not I don't have a
job I never had one job and I never
wanted a job after that because I had to
be hungry nothing to say you know but it
were all different we're humans weren't
different beings sure this diagram here
you know it's why I created my cash flow
board game mm-hmm we have four different
intelligences we have mental
intelligence collagen you probably have
very good physical to make and all that
yeah
emotional intelligence but spiritual
intelligence so I went to military
school in New York the first thing is
spiritual you know I become a Marine
it's spiritual yeah because you're
putting your life on the line yeah you
know so Nassim Taleb you know I wrote
the book the Black Swan you also wrote
anti fragile II this is three kinds of
people in the world
there's fragile and that's why school
systems are putting out fragile and be
snowflakes and that's your choice you
want to be that way have a good life
mm-hmm second type is that sauce a
fragile like a champagne flute yep hit
the shatters then the second one is
called robust and a robust person is
like the rod you know you can pound on a
dumpling oh yeah they take it but that's
all they do they taken and that anti
fragile there's somebody like you where
they pound the crap out of you and you
get smarter and better because mm-hmm so
I love nauseum Talib you know a lot of
people call him dr. doom but the way I
look at this whole thing this economist
publicly I heard depression you know
we're not gonna get out of this really
oh yeah
and so the thing is is this good for you
or bad for you I'm looking forward to it
you know the last the last crash was
2008 yeah and I made more money in 2008
than in the whole life
so this one here mm you know what is a
2020 I'm gonna be richer but I'm gonna
get poor and if they're baby boomers are
gonna blame it on this coronavirus all
my health you know that hey hit the road
put on some running shoes change your
diet get some sunlight hmm
get healthy don't go don't be a wimp but
oh I'm so afraid of dying you're already
dead you don't even know it yet you know
the Marine Corps you know in the Marine
Corps music all corpse people all right
you corpse not core ya know a corpsman
of course miss a person was dead but
doesn't know it
Wow the saw friend of dying they're
already dead yeah it's about taking
action taking control your life taking
control your health your finances
everything I did an interview with Dave
Ramsey last week and he said you know
the last three or four recessions or
down economy's whatever you want to call
it crashes he said I made more money
during those times than I do in good
times so I'm hearing him say that I'm
here you say that how did you make more
money then and how are you planning to
turn this into an opportunity to make
more money now for you what are the
things that the actual like action steps
is it investing more in the stock market
is it real estate isn't buying other
assets what does that look like for you
well the lesson is you got choose your
teachers wisely when the market crash in
2008 gets so much money I borrowed a lot
300 million no way from Bester's the
banker how's that how does that work
because interest rates were dropping and
real estate prices were going to the
toilet and when I walk into my banker at
the split Rich Dad Poor Dad about this
airport has about a financial statement
ankle statement balance sheet statement
of cash no it's a book on accounting
people don't even know it's a book on
accounting so I walked into my bank with
my partner that all this property I was
floating to the surface and I say I'll
take them off your hands I just give it
give me the money to buy the property
Wow
that's cojones
300 million give me the money and I'll
buy your properties for that's crazy so
it depends and this is my whole thing I
am now 700 million almost a billion in
debt free me you know why because I
don't pay any taxes the more Jenna I
have the less tax okay and the average
guy goes how do you do that because you
have bad teachers and so it's this whole
thing that you got choose your teachers
wisely that's what I wrote the book fake
fake money fake teachers fake assets I
don't touch that garbage of Wall Street
puts out I don't have a 401k I don't
have stocks bonds mutual funds ETFs
doesn't mean you shouldn't but I don't
need them okay
right and the other part is look for
young guys the best teachers are not in
colleges the best teacher are on YouTube
the best teachers are on YouTube
wake up yeah this guy George gammon he's
fantastic
Patrick met David fantastic you know
he's great records the fake teachers are
in colleges is that telling to get a job
right the corporate ladder you know
Patrick David said it the best and I
love that guy he says there's two kinds
of leaders wartime and peacetime and a
peacetime leader is a garlic my poor
death he goes through all the right
schools here's all the pedigrees or
credentials he does all the right things
he climbs the corporate on the
government ladder and all that well
wartime leader goes goes to war so jobs
Steve Jobs the wartime leader I'm a
wartime differences I went to war I went
to war twice on the frontlines yeah and
I check it what happened so I joined the
Marine Corps I got a flight pool and
Pensacola I learned to fly but a Camp
Pendleton I strap on my weapons I go to
advanced weapons and Camp Pendleton I go
to Okinawa and then they sent me into
the Vietnam
and I came out of Vietnam about four
months later back to back to restage in
Okinawa and I thought everybody had
changed I looked at the fellow Marines I
thought through and it wasn't that they
were
I had been to war mmm you got tougher
when someone's trying to kill you every
single mission I went down three times
no way yeah and I came back stronger and
tougher so I come back to Okinawa I get
like a week off and they're gonna ship
me back into Vietnam again I said what
happened to these guys and it wasn't
that they change I changed so what
happens to entrepreneurs who go out and
they get their ass handed to them and
they survive if you survive you see the
world through mass and that's what
happened to you when you get injured at
all this yeah you see a different world
whereas some peacetime who's climbing
the corporate ladder right now they just
lost their job they're sucking their
thumb yeah this is the worst time for
yet for a wartime leader that's we're
excited they're excited about it yeah an
employee to you
what is yeah an entrepreneur can create
their own success yeah
what invited I'm sorry go ahead is a job
mm-hmm they're peacetime work remember
see what's Patrick David oh he's great
later peacetime later which one are you
I mean that's what it comes down yeah
that's true best of times for the
wartime guys horrible right and for the
people that are the wartime people what
is the the best advice you would give
them now for the next year or two years
to capitalize on how do they make more
money how do they make their millions
during this time what would you can't
make money now you should hang this
iPhone if you can't make money with that
hang it up you know like we used to say
hang out the jockstrap you know you
can't make money with an iPhone through
social media through marketing you have
the world at your fingertips and you
can't make money the problem is between
this ear and this year's out here
in here that's why you've got to choose
your teachers wisely yeah you know so
let me just say it again the best
teachers are on YouTube so what's the
best portal take up your mind make a
good night what you want listen to you
don't know nice so yeah I'm just being
real hey man I hear you what's what's
the best investment people can make then
to to operate capitalize on this
opportunity is the investment in
education left look if you're poor right
now it was called look in the mirror if
you're looking in the mirror right now
you see a loser that's what you are
change you know hindsight is 20/20 yes
yes almost if you're looking at me you
don't have any money you don't have a
job your boyfriend or girlfriend has
left you and goes well how did I get
here how did I get here there's a great
book called you know Gulag Archipelago
by Solzhenitsyn so he gets thrown in
this in a concentration camp or a gulag
in Siberia and he says how did I get
here
you know how you got there because he
was a peacetime later mmm-hmm
didn't fight back so people are being
slowly both go to school get a job pay
taxes save money get out of debt buy a
house the house is an asset and invest
for the long-term in a well-defined
portfolio of stocks bonds mutual funds
and ETS and I do none of that and why do
you recommend the opposite I don't have
to do that that's that's cool eight go
to school go to school look they teach
about money nothing
get a job you paying the highest taxes
pay your taxes I don't pay taxes get out
of debt well debt money is dead after
1971 if you know you history buddy your
house is not an asset house is a
liability
why about an investor long-term the
stock market when I can make my own
assets I don't need the stock market
unless saying you shouldn't mm-hmm I
create my own assets I create my own
cash flow every day I can be through you
mean through your business through your
your right your creativity yeah most
people are employees they're looking for
jobs I'm just looking for select right
now should entrepreneurs invest in in
the stock market you think of your
entrepreneurial you look fine a stupid
teacher so I'll tell you what to do I'm
asking your opinion I'm curious as a
teacher I don't give advice you know I
wouldn't follow Moore and buff it either
hmm you know why because he invests the
money so what's the worth the investment
you make the most in look please see
what I'm saying yes I made a fortune in
2008 mm-hmm 2020 I'm making more money
and paying less taxes it doesn't mean
don't have problems but I'm prepared for
this my biggest problem right now
because everybody's taking a vacation I
can't get enough product mmm selling out
yeah my cash flow game is sold out it's
selling out constantly all over the
world all over the world
I got royalties from my book sales my
book sales are going through the roof
right now so I'm making more information
yeah there's two kinds of discipline
this internal or self discipline and
then there's external discipline so
right now if the world is kicking your
butt that's external system mm-hmm and
if you're self disciplined the world's
kissing your butt right now it's up to
you so that's why I love the Marine
Corps that's why I love going to
military school and not a university
because I got my ass kicked every single
freaking day
mmm first word I had to learn at the
marine at the Academy mission mission is
spiritual hmm that's your mission and my
mission has always been to serve people
most people all that give a fuck is
making money and then growing people
that's called the Federal Reserve Bank
Walsh we know that I want nothing to do
with them I just don't play their game
but you have to get smarter not to play
their game so that's why YouTube has the
best best teachers this guy George
gammon man he's a great teacher Patrick
McDavid fantastic teacher
yes Cardone fantastic teachers so choose
your teachers wisely
that's all that's when I say because I
have to choose between my rich dad and
my poor debt mmm poor dad PhD poor
helpless and desperate and that's what
he wanted me to do when I came back from
Vietnam was get my masters or being at
my PhD and fly for the airlines if I had
done that you know my friends who flew
for United they're broke you know why
they're broke because Wall Street's
filled our pensions mm-hmm you know it's
called a nice on employee stock option
plan the biggest crisis coming up right
now after this pandemic his pensions are
gonna crash that's right
you got it yeah thanks why are they
gonna crash cuz they auntie them my god
wake up wake up you know there's a
better book than that is called the
creature from Jekyll Island bye-bye G
Edward Griffin it's a big book in it an
audiobook and listen to it you know a
couple a couple of 10 minutes a night or
something the Federal Reserve is only
one prompt won't let one purpose is to
keep the rich rich that's the only job
so every time the market crashes as you
notice money pumps into pump the mark
that they pump the prices up the rich
exit and the poor and middle class who
listen to Dave Ramsey at Suze Orman and
their advice is good for the middle
class doing me wrong they're told to
invest for the long-term
okay so what's happening to the poor in
middle class with our 401 K and I are
right now we're set
that's like saying okay put the
handcuffs on on the Titanic
it's going down meanwhile the rich I've
got their g5 flying in to pick them up
and get off the boat they're out
because the problem isn't in the stock
market the property you know the
problems in the repo market credit
market the consumer commercial paper
market they don't tell you that they
don't teach you that in school so
suddenly wallah you know in September
the court shall oh banking which is
corporate credit and the commercial
paper and the I mean corporate credit
and commercial paper market started to
go bad in September Oh suddenly pandemic
oh that's interesting funny how that up
here hmm
so I'm not saying the pandemic isn't
real I'm saying the real crisis it's a
smokescreen for the real crisis going on
right now hmm
they're stealing your wealth through
your pensions or 401k or IRA through
social security or taxes or Medicare
that's why we have socialism kicking in
right now get Bernie Sanders and ALC and
Elizabeth Warren hardcore socialists but
if you can see you'd be under stiff you
will have a financial education we're
going from capitalist which I am and
nothing wrong with a socialist you know
there's there are some people 20% of the
people need to be given money those are
that the unable what require is not able
to so we should give some people money
but not everybody mm-hmm
so we're going from the capitalism to
Bernie Sanders socialism and Hillary and
all those guys and they were actually
going to communism and you can see it
right now because Boeing is asking for a
bailout and all these guys asking for
bailouts but this time the feds going to
take a percentage ownership breathe yes
that's communism central control of the
economy unless it's right or wrong but
it's coming but that's what they should
teach us in school and our school
teachers most of them are socialists
most are some are communists they want
the government to tell us what to do
they're really fascist you know they're
really fascist a fascist wants to tell
you what to do so you look at this look
at this stuff what's it called social
distancing mmm
you know that's you tickler made the
first amendment
mmm a right to assemble PC political
correctness is freedom of speech okay
that's what's going on and then they're
printing money under all this scheme hmm
so if you study real world peace eNOS
we've lost our trade in a speech that
Stalin took away and the social
distancing is the right to assembly
which is why there was a revolutionary
war back in 1776 you know the the
Americans were had to go hide in a
church because the British would kill
them if they were caught assembling in
peace I'm not saying it's right or wrong
but in the most people are taught this
yeah that's why I love going to military
school brushless University they teach
you a lot of history probably we're
taller Terry history mm-hmm yes bullshit
you know to the victor goes history you
know so the person that writes his winds
of war writes history to justify their
position today that's called his story
you know the loser doesn't get to tell
their story 40 so anyway that's what
we're at and yeah I just leave it to
your generation you guys are in the best
position ever because he's still young
your tech savvy which and the baby
boomers aren't so they're all a lot of
them are feeble and they're gone you
know you guys had the world ahead of you
and use this time to be creative and yes
I shouldn't be bold and I think I saw
something about in 2008 to 2010 some of
the greatest companies or the biggest
companies up today were started then
Airbnb uber right you know all these
other companies Bitcoin Bitcoin 2009
feel uh what's your thoughts on
cryptocurrency why do you love Bitcoin
listen Bitcoin is open source the Fed
can't touch it
mmm you might defend that creature from
Jekyll Island the Fed it's not a bad
it's a cartel we're the richest guys are
ok because this is wake up you know so
anyway the Fed is a cartel so when I saw
Bitcoin come out it's open source it's
people's money gold and silver are God's
money so I my whole objective is I go
through my system of business but I'm
buying gold and silver I store it in
other countries legally because you
can't just move that stuff you got the
movement legally and declare it I move
my money illegally I'm gonna get out of
this country so I'll keep my mouth
outside this country not because of my
government it's because there's so many
people you're gonna see a lawsuits are
gonna go up because people are desperate
they don't have any money so when the
economy gets bad that's maybe an you
know have you been in an accident
have you been hurt let me I'll come out
soon for you so if you don't have the
right corporate corporate Angela LLC is
C corporations as corporations offshore
accounts you got money is gonna be
stolen hmm it's the real game okay your
pensions watched and if you use it ah he
did tell us our pensions are gone you
know what's gonna happen they're gonna
bail them out again
hmm cuz if you read this book here a
creature
it says bail out there's an amp in the
game mmm back in the 80s there was a guy
named Neil Bush let's see the Bush
family George George Silverado savings
when when when Neil Bush got in trouble
George and George bailed them out yeah
what's I mean you say there's two
different types of pensions what's the
difference between normal pension that
someone would get and defined benefit
plan pension what's and why should
people be aware of these things well
defined benefit is industrially
challenged my portes you know so what
happens I got a job with Ford Motor
Company I get defined benefit which men
define benefit may get a paycheck for
your life but they promise you $1,000 a
month to get that for the rest of your
life guaranteed
well the problem was as you know right
around the 70s that's when China and
Japan and all my in Japan and Germany
came on so they had to get rid of
pensions because pensions are dragged on
on the business mmm so they came up with
a thing called the rest so much today is
known as a 401k so a 401k type is a
defined contribution so you have to find
benefit which is conduct related to find
corporation as the 401k contribution so
defined contribution means you only get
what you put in if it's not enough there
Aloha so I mean all these Millennials ah
I have a 401 K and I said you like
bending over and picking up the soap
know the difference
yeah because your 401 K means fees fees
fees fees mutual funds fees fees fees
fees your money is stolen right out of
your pension mm-hmm defined benefit
defined contribution so defined
contribution 401 K is information age
pension they came out in 1974 just as I
just as the baby boomers entering the
workforce so today the average baby
boomers 401k has $65,000 in it the guy
with the fork with a defined benefit
their their annual you know they have
some like a million in it Wow the
trouble is they're empty mmm who stole
my pensions about like co-authors and
they have intense Adele
he was an SEC
attorney and he became a whistleblower
because he saw how much walls people
suck in the cash Wow
pensions so that's who must tell my
pension so he then he made I think
thirty nine million last year blowing
the whistle and all these on this Wall
Street firms Bullivant Sachs those guys
what can people be doing when they have
this 401k or this pension already that's
gonna do nothing for them what should
they be doing well what they should be
doing is choosing the teachers lastly I
can tell you know I don't need money
like I write a book right and I get
royalties from fifty different book
companies throughout the world so let's
say I write a book I make they pay me
$10,000 right to publish my book I have
zero expenses but I collect royalties
for the rest of my life I'm still
collecting huge royalties on a Rich Dad
Poor Dad so I created my own assets I
don't need any yeah I can make a cash
flow board game which unfortunately sold
out right now but every time somebody
buys one I got a royalty what do I work
or not yeah and then I I borrow money I
buy real estate and then I use the
accounting laws appreciation
depreciation amortization and pay no
taxes Trump doesn't pay taxes either as
me emotional as financials Wow
so you don't pay any taxes right now is
it because of debt is that the main
reason or because taxes are incentives
taxes are government wants you to do
certain things for example if I donate
it when I donate money to let's say PBS
public broadcasting I donate money the
church got a tax break that's what taxes
are so they tell you if you do this
we'll give you a tax break so if I have
five hundred employees I get a tax break
if I have real estate assigning housing
I got a tax break so I used it to buy
real estate and the more real estate I
buy less tax today so that's why Dave
Ramsey you know I must advise is good
for that person but I need debt to buy
the real estate so I don't have to pay
any taxes mm-hmm real estate is going
down right now
but that's why I have LLC's and C
corporations because then I keep that
they can't get me because I'm protected
by a corporate entity mm-hmm besides if
you read this book here the creature you
get the creature they're gonna they're
gonna bail me out so they already built
me out they just they just said how many
employees do we have so we calculate it
up so they're gonna give me eight weeks
of hey to pay my employees really free
money so they'll bail you out
Wow I love this country you say don't be
a go ahead but you can't do that as an
employee mmm go to school get a job your
mindset is different that our employees
that's Rich Dad Poor Dad
yeah or dad employee Rich Dad
entrepreneur mmm that was a choice I had
to make what if someone's not like you
said someone's not entrepreneurial
minded or they they don't have those
skills can someone become an
entrepreneur or is it something you're
born with all kinds of entrepreneurs you
know what I mean yeah of course there's
drug dealers are entrepreneurs fuckers
are entrepreneurs there's a young girl
who works her neighborhood she's a
babysitter she's an entrepreneur mhm so
everybody can be an entrepreneur
hopefully be a legal one yeah the
trouble is as hard to make enough money
if you're not a good entrepreneur hmm so
anyway it's just up here find the
teachers find the right teachers you say
don't be a saver be an investor should
people be investing even during these
times if they're not comfortable doing
that or this is the greatest time to
invest is what I'm hearing you say
because why would you say fear now that
was that worked before 1971
you know they printed four point five
trillion after 2008 the estimate they're
gonna print another six to eight
trillion maybe ten trillion Wow after
2020 at the same time they're gonna
Kaiser
zero interest rate policy so you're
saving money while the feds printing
money and they gonna pay it no interest
on it why would you save hmm so that's
that's all I say
and so that's why when Susie talks about
saving Dave I wouldn't do that but for
the average person they should do that
so that's why I choose your teachers
wisely right you just have to know money
that's all yeah and what's your
prediction with real estate over the
next few years you think it's gonna keep
going down now or do you think it's like
in LA I feel like it hasn't gone down at
all it's like the places continues to
grow but eventually it's got to right I
wouldn't invest in LA for one reason
taxes mm-hmm that's your choice people
there's a nice case of that but it is
well I don't like paying taxes mm-hmm
I'll move there plus you have you have
what's called they try to pull it I fake
the name it but you can't raise the rent
some people I don't like rank rank
actual great place to live great
lifestyle but it's gonna we're gonna
have the biggest crash we're going to
depression right now we're going right
past recession into a depression really
yeah Wow you can't have every business
closing and the stock market's going up
but like I said the real problems and
the repo the shadow banking market
that's what they're trying to save
because it's broke
they're quite bankrupt in there so the
dollars going to be strong because
everybody 80% of debt is measured in US
dollars so everybody needs dollars to
pay off their debt okay but in the main
tent the guys for a week their houses
are going to come up for sale the
Lamborghini you know the real estate I
wouldn't touch I wouldn't touch
commercial real estate I mean uh office
buildings office buildings you know
knowing because no one can go work any
more than people working in home for a
while or yeah whatever
now now you know I go to South Africa in
South Africa the office bill as we can
low income house the future see all
those
people Century City here they come ya
know I gotta get I gotta get out of here
now yeah that was jobs yeah I got a few
final questions for you I really she ate
you sharing and giving us this tough
love which which I think a lot of people
need right now correct hey you tell me
we all need different teachers and I
appreciate your perspective this is a
question I ask everyone towards the end
of their conversations I call it the
three truths it's a hypothetical
question but I'd like for you to imagine
for a moment that many years from now
it's your last day on this earth and
you've accomplished everything you've
accomplished all the things you want in
your personal life your dreams it's all
happened but for whatever reason
hypothetically you got to take all of
your your work with you your books your
content your board games all the
teachings you've ever given to the world
it goes with you and you got to leave
only three lessons behind for the rest
of us to learn from what would you say
would be your three lessons or what I
like to call three truths well I think
the most important lessons sit all the
time my Richard always said you know
knowledge is finite stupidity stay
stupid that's a great Ruth because
that's how you get knowledge mmm he's
always say that to me because my dad
always hid behind his diploma PhD he
didn't know anything most Keith school
teachers don't know much you know when
people ask me about the fit
what is the fit I said have you ever
watched The Wizard of Oz and they go
yeah Dorothy and the Tin Man and the
lion and the straw man they went down
the yellow brick road
you're hoping to find the wizard and the
wizard was going to give a lion a heart
you know Dorothy whatever she wanted and
all this stuff and when they get to the
wizard or the fed
it was a midget behind of it there was
nothing behind it that's the Fed that's
the PhD they're hiding behind this thing
called diploma mm-hmm it's obsolete and
so that's the second lesson I'd be
careful what your teachers are make sure
your teacher actually practices what
they teach so my tax guy is Tom we all
right
his book is taxed free well you really
want to stop paying taxes get that book
it's 20 bucks it'll probably save a
couple of million dollars over your
lifetime but if you don't change you
know this left ear and right here that
gap between there yes yeah and then you
have my other friend mother wiser Andy
tenner he brought the books to stock
market cash flow instead of investing
for the long term he makes money at
markets going up or down I'd rather do
that then by prey and hold and this is
the Suze Orman and Dave Ramsey but it's
your choice yeah other guys
Kenny McElroy he wastes all my real
estate books he's my real estate partner
we've made fortunes together you know
this is just fortunes tax-free why would
you go to school just buy some books
started them get their YouTube it make
some it make some mistakes on your own
right oh you don't have to just get
stupid but no yeah blessed are the meek
for they shall inherit meek means Eagle
loss I'm gonna learn so I know what goes
on in the stock market that's why I stay
out of it but if you don't know might be
the best place for you so if you wants
to end the stock market that's Andy
tanner
stock market cashflow and 401k us they
tell you what's really going on because
they're real they're in the market every
day you know Jim Rogers what the
investment biker and all that doesn't
Singapore he basically says the problem
with the Fed is they don't know what
they're talking about they're idiots and
we listen to them they're The Wizard of
Oz everybody thinks they know something
cuz they've got this piece of paper
poor dad called a PhD rich dad poor dad
at a financial statement you cannot lie
in your finances to me because that's
fraud phd's diploma rich people
financial statements hmm the other thing
is this I don't have a financial planner
I have a family office the rich have
family offices so we have money to lend
constantly we make so much money
hmm so there was a difference in that
mindset intelligence of what you learn
so I think the most important thing that
you're teaching people in the school of
greatness mm-hmm it's basically choose
your teachers what you have you want to
go down you know when you're a football
career ended it was the best thing that
happened to you yeah it started finding
mentors yeah and that's what you're
doing and so you're a great role model
for your generation thank you my
generation there's still baby boomers
what's that hello boomer what do they
say
April emerge it is they still fit most
boomers are still cutting uh social
security in the stock market I hear yeah
I did I don't know if you said the third
one you said knowledge is finite
stupidity is infinite so stay stupid
number one which I love that because
I've always felt like I'm the bitch
what's that be humble to make mistakes I
learned exactly exactly be careful who
your teachers are and the third one was
don't hide behind diploma hmm you know
if somebody says to you show me your
financials so like that's the story of
family offers versus everybody has a
home office that's different than a
family office so a family office is like
a hedge fund mmm but what rich guys have
their own hedge funds or their own
private equity firms it's not if it is
yeah so that's where you want to get to
so when you're there the difference is
people ask me for money like like on
Shark Tank the first thing I
before it's not the diploma show me your
financials hmm
if they don't have financials I want to
invest them because they deal
they don't know what they're talking
about just because you have a cool
degree or fancy paper doesn't mean you
can get results Oh God
you see you can lie from behind diploma
that's what the feds doing so that's all
Rich Dad Poor Dad it's about it's about
financial statements and the cash flow
game is physically again like I said it
physically yep this poor intelligence
mental emotional physical spiritual aim
makes you fill out your financials on
these four intelligences yeah you have
to move the tangent they pull out the
numbers and all this stuff so it's max
its max learning unfortunately again I
solved that but anyway that's how I
designed 26 years ago yeah they can go
they can go order in and it'll be out
hopefully in the next couple months they
can get it on a waitlist you have you've
you've impacted millions of people's
lives around the world I remember
actually playing the game with my mom 20
22 years ago I don't know I was a kid
yeah major and I remember you know
learning these principles and even
though I didn't fully understand it and
even though it seemed like much for me
to understand as a teenager and
overwhelming it planted a seed and so
did the book Rich Dad Poor Dad which I
learned about an early age so I want to
acknowledge you for giving being a
teacher in a world of teachers educate
people on a specific way not the only
way but a way that has worked for you
and worked for millions of people around
the world for constantly creating value
boardgames being creative with your
content to educate us in this way and
I'm really just grateful that you
continued to show up and serve and be
yourself because you are unique human
being and I appreciate you Robert for
your own style and approach
thank you but you know what you and I
are great teachers why is that we didn't
do well
yeah we have to be curious and learn
well we just like that Solomon shit
we're dead didn't work for my rich dad
yeah and you see that's what I mean
choose your teachers wise yeah
there's millions of ways you can come
rich but you got to find your way your
teacher your pattern mm-hmm and you've
got this book out now who stole my
pension make sure to check this out to
really educate yourself on what's
happening with pensions 401ks and what
you can do with your money moving
forward this is great
let's get help a lot of people who are
going to be trapped if they're not
educated on this uh-huh
you know most you guys will have your
parents what to pay for them my mom is
68 69 I'm already having to figure out
okay how do I support her toast yeah
she's making a few thousand I think from
her retirement and pension or a couple
differences she adds from the company
where she was like wow and then other
guys a UPS driver a teamster he was
making five thousand a month making nine
hundred ups yeah those are major forms
so you stole my pension and it gives you
a glimpse more into the what's coming
this the next crisis coming up as a baby
boomer crisis just like the pentad
because a baby boomer crisis they're
picking on the old guys again makes you
guys get this book also 25th anniversary
of Rich Dad Poor Dad coming up next year
you know get that book if you have
already read it in the past read it
again because we constantly need to be
reminded and educated and we see what's
that repetition is how we learn that's
it we constantly got to learn even if
we've learned it in the past yeah you
might have forgot it you got to relearn
and reapply what you learn yeah so get
that book we try to stock ourselves and
give them the way to people
you saying you did a master it after the
first time I'm poor that's why good
teachers mm-hmm I love it I've got a one
final question for you and I and people
can follow you online they can get the
book will link everything up here you've
got some great stuff on social media on
Instagram so I'd say go follow Robert on
Instagram as well my final question for
you Robert is what is your definition of
greatness I said my plan was to die at
72 I almost like so many times I went
down three times in Vietnam and my days
were numbered from the start I have an
open heart surgery I've had cancer I've
had pneumonia I've had malaria and so
you know when everybody talks about this
Cove at 19 I said been there done that
one you know but each one of it inspired
me to get healthier mmm and so this
crisis should inspire people to get
wealthier or you can be on loser mm-hmm
so I don't know what I'm going with that
but it's just all everything bad is good
and everything good will be bad or
that's what nauseum talents is really
fragile robust or anti fragile and the
people following you or anti fragile
well they're gonna be following yeah
that's it
Robert thank you so much for your wisdom
for sharing today I can't wait to learn
more as one of my teachers when I
continue to learn from you so thanks for
everything man thanks for all you guys
who follow you as a teacher I appreciate
it thank you thank you so much for
watching this interview with Robert
Kiyosaki if you want to learn how to go
from being broke to a millionaire in any
recession check this out right here with
Dave Ramsey you know it's the greatest
time and the worst time in your life I
lost everything in my 20s I don't go
back there but the lessons that I
learned from that pain were so thorough
pain is a thorough teacher